---
title: 'CyanogenMod for Meizu MX4: CM12.1 20151005 testing release'
date: 2015-10-06T17:15:00+08:00
draft: false
---


## Disclaimer and acknowledgements

**All your actions with your phone are at your own risk; the author of this
ROM is not liable.**

This ROM is compiled from CyanogenMod 12.1 sources with own modifications
(which are open-sourced on GitHub). I'd like to acknowledge the following
people for their respective efforts:

* [@axet](https://github.com/axet) and [@fire855](https://github.com/fire855) for the general MTK porting efforts
* [@DerTeufel](https://github.com/DerTeufel) for the information regarding to the MTK GPS implementation


## Changelog

* 2015/10/06 17:15 First (translated) release


## Bugs fixed since last release

* Added incremental (not block-based, however) OTA package
* Fixed some SIM cards not being recognized and FDD baseband not working
* Fixed being unable to initialize Wi-Fi hotspot (kludgy; more elegant solution pending)
* Fixed PLMN name `UNICOM` not being correctly localized as China Unicom
* Fixed Trebuchet crashing on long-pressing app icon when quick search bar is not present
* Fixed LTE being not selectable as preferred network in Settings app


## Known bugs and limitations

* FDD baseband cannot attach to UMTS networks
* Proximity sensor not properly working in some circumstances
* Unable to revert from setting USB option to Charging-only
* Audio is not properly re-routed on connecting Bluetooth audio
* Unable to pair with some Bluetooth (BLE?) devices
* FLAC decoding and playback is not supported
* etc.


## Downloading

* [MEGA][mega]

Currently only builds for Android edition MX4 are available, but phones of the
Ubuntu Edition should be compatible too.

[mega]: https://mega.nz/#!tQdwWZ7J!Ky7EBFHpW3g8-9asrse_rrU8Ht3wqe0kE-JdDJ_Zw_o


Checksums:

```
# MD5
acb1a59defa33c675d5f6ae7ffdf6b8e  cm-12.1-20151005-UNOFFICIAL-mx4-fixedboot-signed.zip
14c2f1c6725c077d5e42d33384600a74  ota-mx4-20150930-20151005-fixedscript-signed.zip


# SHA-1
c6087bcef198d43a6f5d82ffe14d0f5e6f203610  cm-12.1-20151005-UNOFFICIAL-mx4-fixedboot-signed.zip
36abce0adfc89d497f2c2f1245724468be09b85a  ota-mx4-20150930-20151005-fixedscript-signed.zip


# SHA-256
2ab8dc425a0efc9bceb3159695ca24ab4bc258f6b4d38c69fe6d60c248876cd8  cm-12.1-20151005-UNOFFICIAL-mx4-fixedboot-signed.zip
3a1d80beace4ad74564fcdc5850a1c6d0a92cc551e208dc8b46946e6eb86cffc  ota-mx4-20150930-20151005-fixedscript-signed.zip


# SHA-512
f23864225f2a98f326040cea86572fae94b27f6f8a7b6b283a44dcf5cb6daf4d4e7fd28fb80d249ab4ff9c35714ab54f72642afeead04f8c889f6a4bc5802840  cm-12.1-20151005-UNOFFICIAL-mx4-fixedboot-signed.zip
4be527b5e96f0cae07c9f110612045a79291e304c07f37c1c745d719afc83bf0a19e218b7bf36c67f0ad12791ebc3f754db309ecccd16b7a4355981dc9e800cd  ota-mx4-20150930-20151005-fixedscript-signed.zip
```


## Flashing

You need to have your Meizu MX4 unlocked, the tutorial can be found [here][unlocking-tutorial].
After unlocking just flash as usual; remember to wipe your `/data` partition if
you're coming from Flyme or Ubuntu Touch or generally any incompatible system.

[unlocking-tutorial]: http://forum.xda-developers.com/meizu-mx/general/tutorial-bootloader-unlocking-mx4-m1-t3201715)


## Notes

* **Cellular network**
    - There may well be no signal at first boot, please **toggle on and off flight mode** for the telephony component to re-initialize itself.
* more to come later


## Supporting

I do Android porting mainly for personal use and fun, but as a matter of fact
I sometimes find myself struggling to achieve the standards I strive for, as
a graduate student still learning his way into the industry and having things
to take care of besides coding. If you appreciate my work, please kindly
consider donating something equivalent to a beer or two. I will use the
donations to support my porting work and studies. PayPal and Alipay payments are
accepted:

* PayPal/Alipay: `idontknw.wang@gmail.com`


<!-- vim:set ai et ts=4 sw=4 sts=4 fenc=utf-8: -->
